README.md, before:

# patreon-python

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/patreon.svg?style=flat)](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/patreon.svg?style=flat)](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/patreon.svg?style=flat)](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/patreon/patreon-python.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Patreon/patreon-python/)
[![Coverage Reports](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/jekyll/jekyll.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/Patreon/patreon-python)

Interact with the Patreon API via OAuth.

Get the egg from [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon), typically via `pip`:

```
pip install patreon
```
or
```
echo "patreon" >> requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Make sure that, however you install `patreon`,
you install its [dependencies](https://github.com/Patreon/patreon-python/blob/master/setup.py#L12) as well


Step 1. Get your client_id and client_secret
---
Visit the [OAuth Documentation Page](https://www.patreon.com/oauth2/documentation)
while logged in as a Patreon creator to register your client.

This will provide you with a `client_id` and a `client_secret`.


Step 2. Use this library
---
e.g., in a Flask route
```python
import patreon
from flask import request
...

client_id = None      # Replace with your data
client_secret = None  # Replace with your data
creator_id = None     # Replace with your data

@app.route('/oauth/redirect')
def oauth_redirect():
    oauth_client = patreon.OAuth(client_id, client_secret)
    tokens = oauth_client.get_tokens(request.args.get('code'), '/oauth/redirect')
    access_token = tokens['access_token']

    api_client = patreon.API(access_token)
    user_response = api_client.fetch_user()
    user = user_response['data']
    included = user_response.get('included')
    if included:
        pledge = next((obj for obj in included
            if obj['type'] == 'pledge' and obj['relationships']['creator']['data']['id'] == creator_id), None)
        campaign = next((obj for obj in included
            if obj['type'] == 'campaign' and obj['relationships']['creator']['data']['id'] == creator_id), None)
    else:
        pledge = None
        campaign = None

    # pass user, pledge, and campaign to your view to render as needed
```


Step 3. (Optional) Customize your usage
---
`patreon.API` instances have four methods for interacting with the API:
* `fetch_user(includes=None, fields=None)`
* `fetch_campaign(includes=None, fields=None)`
* `fetch_campaign_and_patrons(includes=None, fields=None)`
* `fetch_page_of_pledges(campaign_id, page_size, cursor=None, includes=None, fields=None)`

The `includes` and `fields` arguments to these methods specify
the [related resources](http://jsonapi.org/format/#fetching-includes)
and the [resource attributes](http://jsonapi.org/format/#fetching-sparse-fieldsets)
you want returned by our API, as per the [JSON:API specification](http://jsonapi.org/).
The lists of valid `includes` and `fields` arguments are provided on `patreon.schemas`.
For instance, if you wanted to request the total amount a patron has ever paid to your campaign,
which is not included by default, you could do:
```python
api_client = patreon.API(patron_access_token)
patron_response = api_client.fetch_user(None, {
    'pledge': patreon.schemas.pledge.default_attributes + [patreon.schemas.pledge.Attributes.total_historical_amount_cents]
})
```

`patreon.API` also has a utility method `extract_cursor`
which you can use to extract [pagination links](http://jsonapi.org/format/#fetching-pagination)
from our [json:api response documents](http://jsonapi.org):
```python
api_client = patreon.API(patron_access_token)
patrons_page = api_client.fetch_page_of_pledges(campaign_id, 10)
next_cursor = api_client.extract_cursor(patrons_page)
second_patrons_page = api_client.fetch_page_of_pledges(campaign_id, 10, cursor=next_cursor)
```


Developing
---
1. Clone this repo
2. `virtualenv venv`
3. `source venv/bin/activate`
4. `pip install -e .`
4. `pip install -r dev-requirements.txt`
5. `git checkout -b my-branch-name`
6. make your edits, writing tests for any new functionality
7. make sure tests pass with `python setup.py test`
8. `git push`
9. Open a pull request, explaining your changes (both problem and solution) clearly

Commit message:

Use Cartographer to provide clients with a parsed JSON:API document for them to use, rather than raw JSON:API data (which, due to normalization, can be confusing)

README.md, after:

# patreon-python

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/patreon.svg?style=flat)](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/patreon.svg?style=flat)](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/patreon.svg?style=flat)](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/patreon/patreon-python.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Patreon/patreon-python/)
[![Coverage Reports](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/jekyll/jekyll.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/Patreon/patreon-python)

Interact with the Patreon API via OAuth.

Get the egg from [PyPI](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/patreon), typically via `pip`:

```
pip install patreon
```
or
```
echo "patreon" >> requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Make sure that, however you install `patreon`,
you install its [dependencies](https://github.com/Patreon/patreon-python/blob/master/setup.py#L12) as well


Step 1. Get your client_id and client_secret
---
Visit the [OAuth Documentation Page](https://www.patreon.com/oauth2/documentation)
while logged in as a Patreon creator to register your client.

This will provide you with a `client_id` and a `client_secret`.


Step 2. Use this library
---
e.g., in a Flask route
```python
import patreon
from flask import request
...

client_id = None      # Replace with your data
client_secret = None  # Replace with your data
creator_id = None     # Replace with your data

@app.route('/oauth/redirect')
def oauth_redirect():
    oauth_client = patreon.OAuth(client_id, client_secret)
    tokens = oauth_client.get_tokens(request.args.get('code'), '/oauth/redirect')
    access_token = tokens['access_token']

    api_client = patreon.API(access_token)
    user_response = api_client.fetch_user()
    user = user_response.data()
    pledges = user.related_resource('pledges')
    pledge = pledges[0] if pledges and len(pledges) > 0 else None

    # pass user and pledge to your view to render as needed
```

You'll notice that the `user_response` does not return raw JSON data.
Instead, it returns a [JSON:API resource object](https://github.com/Patreon/cartographer/blob/master/cartographer/parsers/jsonapi_parser.py#L6),
to simplify traversing the normalized graph data that the Patreon API returns.
Some available methods are:
* `response.data()` to get the main resource
* `response.data().attribute('full_name')` to get the `full_name` attribute from the response data
* `response.data().related_resource('campaign').attribute('pledge_sum')` to get the `pledge_sum` attribute from the `campaign` resource related to the main response data
* `response.find_resource_by_type_and_id('user', '123')` to find an arbitrary resource


Step 3. (Optional) Customize your usage
---
`patreon.API` instances have four methods for interacting with the API:
* `fetch_user(includes=None, fields=None)`
* `fetch_campaign(includes=None, fields=None)`
* `fetch_campaign_and_patrons(includes=None, fields=None)`
* `fetch_page_of_pledges(campaign_id, page_size, cursor=None, includes=None, fields=None)`

The `includes` and `fields` arguments to these methods specify
the [related resources](http://jsonapi.org/format/#fetching-includes)
and the [resource attributes](http://jsonapi.org/format/#fetching-sparse-fieldsets)
you want returned by our API, as per the [JSON:API specification](http://jsonapi.org/).
The lists of valid `includes` and `fields` arguments are provided on `patreon.schemas`.
For instance, if you wanted to request the total amount a patron has ever paid to your campaign,
which is not included by default, you could do:
```python
api_client = patreon.API(patron_access_token)
patron_response = api_client.fetch_user(None, {
    'pledge': patreon.schemas.pledge.default_attributes + [patreon.schemas.pledge.Attributes.total_historical_amount_cents]
})
```

`patreon.API` also has a utility method `extract_cursor`
which you can use to extract [pagination links](http://jsonapi.org/format/#fetching-pagination)
from our [json:api response documents](http://jsonapi.org):
```python
api_client = patreon.API(creator_access_token)
campaign_id = api_client.fetch_campaign().data()[0].json_data['id'] # TODO: extend PostedDocument to have resource_id
pledges = []
cursor = None
while True:
    pledges_response = api_client.fetch_page_of_pledges(campaign_id, 10, cursor=cursor)
    pledges.append(pledges_response.data())
    cursor = api_client.extract_cursor(pledges_response)
    if not cursor:
        break
names_and_pledges = [{
    'full_name': pledge.related_resource('patron').attribute('full_name'),
    'amount_cents': pledge.attribute('amount_cents'),
} for pledge in pledges]
```


Developing
---
1. Clone this repo
2. `virtualenv venv`
3. `source venv/bin/activate`
4. `pip install -e .`
4. `pip install -r dev-requirements.txt`
5. `git checkout -b my-branch-name`
6. make your edits, writing tests for any new functionality
7. make sure tests pass with `python setup.py test`
8. `git push`
9. Open a pull request, explaining your changes (both problem and solution) clearly
